W 12356627 forward proxy support gr (#142)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.4/modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/forward-proxy-config.adoc

//tag::configuration[]
A forward proxy, such as Squid, enables you to route external HTTP Flex Gateway connections through a proxy connection.  

For both Connected Mode and Local Mode, you configure a forward proxy using YAML configuration files.

The following diagram demonstrates how an internal network communicates with an external network using a forward proxy. 

> image:forward-proxy-diagram.png[align=center]

Reviewer: For accessibility, you need to use alt text for diagrams and screenshots. Here is some information about alt text: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/Writing+for+Accessibility#WritingforAccessibility-AltText

> image:forward-proxy-diagram.png[This is an image of all connetions to your Flex Gateway first traveling through a forward proxy, align=center]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image:forward-proxy-diagram.png[This is an image of all connections to your Flex Gateway first traveling through a forward proxy, align=center]
```

> As in the diagram, when using a forward proxy, HTTP communication into or out of your internal network must travel through the forward proxy. 

Reviewer 3: Only the outgoing connections go through the forward proxy
```suggestion
As in the diagram, when using a forward proxy, HTTP communication out of your internal network must travel through the forward proxy. 
```

> In the previous example, all HTTP API upstream communication must also pass through the forward proxy. For more information about how to enable some connections to communicate directly, without the forward proxy, see <<noproxy-parameter, noProxy Parameter>>.

Reviewer: I suggest removing "some."

> In the previous example, all HTTP API upstream communication must also pass through the forward proxy. For more information about how to enable some connections to communicate directly, without the forward proxy, see <<noproxy-parameter, noProxy Parameter>>.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

In this example, HTTP communication out of your internal network must travel through the forward proxy. All HTTP API upstream communication must also pass through the forward proxy...

Since this text immediately follows the example, you can say "In this example" instead of "In the previous example."

> In this example, all HTTP API upstream communication must also pass through the forward proxy. For more information about how to enable some connections to communicate directly, without the forward proxy, see <<noproxy-parameter, noProxy Parameter>>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, all HTTP API upstream communication must also pass through the forward proxy. For more information about how to enable some connections to communicate directly without the forward proxy, see <<noproxy-parameter, noProxy Parameter>>.
```

== Forward Proxy Connections
Only HTTP connections route through the forward proxy.

The following connections route through the forward proxy:

* Connections to Anypoint Platform
* Outbound policy connections
* Connections to upstream services
* HTTP (Fluent Bit) log connections

> Using the `noProxy` parameter you can configure HTTP and HTTPS connections to connect directly without using the forward proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `noProxy` parameter to configure HTTP and HTTPS connections to connect directly without using the forward proxy.
```

> Using the `noProxy` parameter you can configure HTTP and HTTPS connections to connect directly without using the forward proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `noProxy` parameter, you can configure HTTP and HTTPS connections to connect directly without using the forward proxy.
```

Configuring a forward proxy does not alter these connections:

* Connections to shared storage
* Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) connections
* Non-HTTP log connections

== noProxy Parameter

> Adding the `noProxy` parameter allows HTTP services you trust to communicate without using the forward proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding the `noProxy` parameter enables HTTP services you trust to communicate without using the forward proxy.
```

> For example, when you enable `noProxy`, you can list connections to upstream services and HTTP log connections to connect directly to Flex Gateway. 

Reviewer: This wording is a bit off. I suggest this instead (if it is accurate):

For example, when you enable `noProxy`, you can list HTTP log connections and connections to upstream services to have them connect directly to Flex Gateway.

When using the `noProxy` parameter in the YAML configuration file to communicate with HTTP logs, you must list the exact domain name. You cannot list the domain suffix, for example, `.svc.cluster.local`. You need to list full domain name, `<logging-name>.svc.cluster.local`, for all HTTP log connections.

The following diagram demonstrates the differences in communication using noProxy:

image:no-proxy-diagram.png[align=center]

> In the diagram, when you do not enable `noProxy`, Flex Gateway communicates with the internal API endpoint using the forward proxy. When you do enable `noProxy`, listing the API Upstream domain, Flex Gateway communicates directly with the internal API endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the diagram, when you do not enable `noProxy`, Flex Gateway communicates with the internal API endpoint using the forward proxy. When you enable `noProxy` and list the API Upstream domain, Flex Gateway communicates directly with the internal API endpoint.
```

== Configuring Forward Proxy Parameters

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: gateway.mulesoft.com/v1alpha1
kind: Configuration
metadata:
  name: forward-proxy
spec:
  forwardProxy: 
    https: // REQUIRED
      address: http://proxy:8888 // REQUIRED
      basicAuth: // OPTIONAL
        username: <string> // REQUIRED WITH basicAuth
        password: <string> // REQUIRED WITH basicAuth
    noProxy: // OPTIONAL
       - fluentd
       - .svc.cluster.local

----

|===
|Parameter | Required or Optional | Description

| `https.address`
| required
| Proxy adddress

| `basicAuth`
| Optional

> | Supplies authentication username and password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Supplies the authentication username and password
```

//tag::configuration[]

> A forward proxy, such as Squid, enables you to route all external Flex Gateway connections through a single proxy connection.  

Reviewer 3: Only HTTP (and HTTPS) connections:
```suggestion
A forward proxy, such as Squid, enables you to route HTTP external Flex Gateway connections through a single proxy connection.  
```

> A forward proxy, such as Squid, enables you to route all external Flex Gateway connections through a single proxy connection.  

Reviewer 3: Also, multiple connections are used, not just one:
```suggestion
A forward proxy, such as Squid, enables you to route all external Flex Gateway connections  
```

For both Connected Mode and Local Mode, you configure a forward proxy using YAML configuration files.

The following diagram demonstrates how an internal network communicates with an external network using a forward proxy. 

image:forward-proxy-diagram.png[align=center]

> As in the diagram, when using a forward proxy, all communication into or out of your internal network travels through the forward proxy first. 

Reviewer 3: Only HTTP (and HTTPS) connections:
```suggestion
As in the diagram, when using a forward proxy, HTTP communications into or out of your internal network travels through the forward proxy first. 
```

In the previous example, all API upstream communication must also pass through the forward proxy. For more information about how to enable some connections to communicate directly, without the forward proxy, see <<noproxy-parameter, noProxy Parameter>>.

== Forward Proxy Connections
Only HTTP and HTTPS connections route through the forward proxy.

The following connections route through the forward proxy:

* Connections to Anypoint Platform
* Outbound policy connections
* Connections to upstream services
* HTTP log connections

Using the `noProxy` parameter you can configure HTTP and HTTPS connections to connect directely without using the forward proxy.

Configuring a forward proxy does not alter these connections:

* Connections to shared storage
* Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) connections

> * Transition Control Protocol (TCP) connections

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure about including the TCP connections in this list. Since HTTP connections are TCP as well it might be confusing. We could just put "other non HTTP connections"

* Non-HTTP log connections

== noProxy Parameter

Adding the `noProxy` parameter allows services you trust to communicate without using the forward proxy.

> For example, when you enable `noProxy`, you can list connections to upstream services and HTTP log connections to connect directely to Flex Gateway. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, when you enable `noProxy`, you can list connections to upstream services and HTTP log connections to connect directly to Flex Gateway. 
```

You can also skip adding the `noProxy` parameter to your configuration file and add the `--no-proxy` flag during registration. Using the `--no-proxy`, you do not need to list exact domain names. To learn more about the `--no-proxy` flag, see <<forward-proxy-flex-gateway-registration, Forward Proxy Flex Gateway Registration>>.

The following diagram demonstrates the differences in communication using noProxy:

image:no-proxy-diagram.png[align=center]

In the diagram, when you do not enable `noProxy`, Flex Gateway communicates with the internal API endpoint using the forward proxy. When you do enable `noProxy`, listing the API Upstream domain, Flex Gateway communicates directly with the internal API endpoint.

== Configuring Forward Proxy Parameters

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: gateway.mulesoft.com/v1alpha1
kind: Configuration
metadata:
  name: forward-proxy
spec:
  forwardProxy: 
    https: // REQUIRED
      address: http://proxy:8888 // REQUIRED
      basicAuth: // OPTIONAL
        username: <string> // OPTIONAL

>         Password: <string> // OPTIONAL

Reviewer 3: When basic auth is provided, then both username and password are required
